# Does Maintaining A Healthier Diet Help Us Fight Against COVID-19?

## Introduction

Coronavirus (COVID-19) is an infectious respiratory disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The first case of COVID-19 was reported on December 1, 2019. COVID-19 began at the beginning of December 2019 near Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. The cause of the pandemic was due to a new coronavirus, later called SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 is of animal origin, with genetic similarity to bat coronaviruses, thought to result from a bat virome (bat-borne virus) [1] . In the past, outbreaks of some infectious diseases have been attributed to viruses from birds, pigs, and other animals that are lethal to humans.

Most people infected with the virus develop mild to moderate respiratory illness and recover without the need for special treatment. However, some people become severely ill and need to see a doctor immediately, or within a few days of contracting symptoms. The Elderly and individuals with underlying disorders such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory illness, and cancer are more likely to contract serious illnesses, so they are at high-risk of acquire coronavirus [2]. Anyone is able to become infected with COVID-19, become seriously ill, or die. Although, the rate of contraction in younger individuals tend to persist much less.

The best way to prevent and delay transmission of Coronavirus is to be well informed about how the virus is spreading. The virus is able to be spread by small particles of liquid as an infected person coughs, sneezes, talks, or breathes through their mouth or nose. To protect yourself and others from infection, it is advised to stay at least six feet away from others, wear a properly-fitting mask, wash your hands frequently, use hand sanitizer or alcohol-based rubbing. Receiving a vaccine is highly recommended to fight against being infected with the Coronavirus.

With the rise of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is much uncertainty and misinformation being spread. In this final tutorial, we decided to address the importance of diet and maintaining a healthy lifestyle to lessen the risk of contracting COVID-19. Utilizing worldwide demographics and data, we seek to illustrate through information extraction, visual creativity, and statistical patterns to prove if having a healthier diet will increase the chances of survival against COVID-19. Through Data Science techniques such as Python regression analysis, null-hypothesis testing, and exploratory data analysis, we are determined to prove and disprove popular assumptions as to whether certain factors regarding the health of the individual affect COVID-19 mortality rates. The following variables will be utilized to prove our hypothesis: Obesity, Undernourishment, Vegetable consumption, Treenut consumption, and Fruits-Excluding Wine consumption.

To know more about the topics throughout the tutorial, we have links to various sources that are specified by bracketed numbers. These numbers are from the Works Cited Section at the bottom of our Tutorial. The sources provide various information regarding Covid-19 origins and its high risk populations, along with the benefits or drawbacks to certain types of diets outlined in the argument of the Tutorial.
